All right, one other tool that is
useful is we talked a little bit about,
there was move and then resize,
or move and scale rather, and
you didn't really see me use scale.
Now for things like a rectangle,
it's basically the same thing, right?
I move it.
It's now a bigger rectangle,
that feels like scaling, right?
But what happens if I grab
something that has text in it or
something along those lines?
Well, it'll change
the bounds of the frame.
But it'll leave all the texts
the same size, right?
Scale is like no,
you weren't listening to me, right?
What I really wanna do is I
want to make the thing bigger.
So hit the Scale tool, it'll actually
scale the type as well, right?
And so
you can kind of do both in this case.
So yeah, it's like no, I don't wanna
change the bounds and refill the text,
I literally want to bigger
eyes everything, right,
that is when you pull the Scale tool.
Obviously, the key for the Scale tool is,
you guessed it, the letter K.
I don't make the rules here,
I just have to tell you about them, okay.
So the other thing that we
are going to do in this course,
it'd be really great if we spent the day
together, and I showed you how to
start from a perfect empty Figma and
create the correct way to do everything.
And that would be wonderful
until the first time you either,
we can blame other people and say until
we receive somebody else's Figma file.
And it's not using some of these
practices and then you're like,
now you're just sad and resentful, but
we all know who everyone's least favorite
engineer is, right, you six months ago.
You six months ago racked up some tech
debt that current you has to deal with.
So let's look about how to take a design.
As I mentioned before, I mocked this up,
but I did bad things, right?
When I say there's no concepts of frames,
there's a few frames in here for
where doing it the bad way was so tedious
that I couldn't take it anymore, right.
And so for some of the buttons,
they're technically frames in this case.
But what I wanna do is show you a few
ways you can begin to take something
that isn't set up great and
begin to bring order to the universe.
And we won't take
everything we learned and
apply it to this cuz it's just
tedious in its own right.
But we'll take a few of these concepts so
you can kind of figure
out how to apply it.
We're not gonna get it all
the way to perfection.
But we'll kinda use it as
a case study as we go through.
So like I said,
there's no real concept of layers here,
of grouping in any way, shape or form.
I at the very least named the layers for
my own sanity, but that's about it.
So there's a few things
that we can do here.
So for instance,
let's say I wanna move this card.
Right now it's real hard because
nothing has any sense of grouping or
hierarchy to it, right?
And this is both sad to design with.
And sad if hypothetically you're
a front end engineer who receives this,
cuz then you basically have to reverse
engineer the component hierarchy, right?
We can argue that getting some of
these hierarchy and organization and
instructional pieces right into design,
if you're doing it,
it helps future you the engineer
implementing it, right?
Or, there's some old Figma around,
your current designer is great.
Everyone knows that.
But maybe the previous designer wasn't,
right, and
you still have that design
that you're working with.
And you're the one implementing it.
It's helpful for you, at least you to be
the one that brings order to this as well,
right?
And like I said, I started using this
tool at work but then eventually,
on side projects and other things, instead
of like, you get an idea for a side
project and you start writing code and
then you realize your layout is terrible,
you start tweaking stuff by hand,
this is a lot easier.
So how do we bring some order to this?
Well, for some of these pieces,
we could actually just select, and
like I said before,
we can hit Command+Option+G,
and now I can move this thing around
as one kinda contiguous unit.
Now you might imagine that you could
probably make sub frames in here as well,
right?
Chances are that I wanna
maybe move the name and
the company around at the same time.
So you could theoretically
Command+click and hold Shift and
create additional frames as well.
I'll do one here.
And I could make that a frame, so now I
can move this around within the balance.
Also, kind of in the same way that
you would look at a JPEG of a UI and
in your front end engineer brain try to
reverse engineer the component structure.
Those neural pathways are super helpful
right now, right, cuz it's the same idea.
And frankly, I would be lying to you if I
said that I didn't sometimes just do this
as I'm thinking about the architecture
of a UI as well, right?
Looking at it, even before Figma,
you draw some boxes around some stuff,
you think about, what is the component
structure before you start digging a hole
of tech debt as you just
start writing code.
Stopping and thinking and
breaking stuff down is super useful.
So there's a bunch of stuff, we can grab,
for instance, hold Shift and
we can grab a few different things here as
well, and see if we got everything here.
And one of the ways to check is just to,
see, I missed something, grab all of that,
put in a frame, and
now I can move this around as well.
The other thing that we could do is,
there's some cases where this
background or even over here,
if I wanted to basically eventually
move both the heading and
the search field, let's say this
is a contiguous unit of my UI.
There's no even implicit box
rectangle that this is over.
This, before I made a frame,
was just a rectangle that had
some texts just on top of it.
When I turned it into a frame, there's
an invisible box that the rectangle is in
with everything else
that I'm moving around.
Eventually I probably
delete the rectangle and
change the background color of the frame.
But we have this other issue here which
is, behind these two cards, if I wanted to
move this entire section around,
that's just the iPhone background, right?
There's nothing for
me to kinda grab on to here.
The super interesting thing is if
you just grab, you hit the F key and
you kind of just draw where
you wish there was a frame.
I wish my code worked like this, right?
I'm just gonna write the code that I wish,
like APIs, right?
I'm gonna pretend I have the APIs that I
wish the backend engineers gave me, right?
It doesn't work for engineering, but
it does work in Figma in this case.
You can kinda draw the box around it,
and you'll see in this case that it,
let me see, did I get it right,
yep, that it kind of implicitly
put everything that I ensnared in
that frame inside of it, right?
And so
these things were not in the same frame,
there was no real common rectangle
that they were in front of.
I just drew a square around both of
them and I got a mostly accurate,
actually completely accurate frame
where there was none before, right?
And like I said, we can keep going
with this, I won't belabor the point.
In cooking shows where they have,
they show you how to make a turkey.
And then there's one that they pull out
the oven four seconds later, right,
as if time elapsed, right?
We have one that's kind of all parted
out that we can kinda use as well, but
this technique works.
And again, you can either take existing
things, select them all, hit Cmd+Option+G.
Or when you don't have anything to work
with, like again here, if I wanted to
kind of zoom in a little bit, I can see
like there's a difference there, and
it will snap to like
where other shapes are.
But these are now implicitly
inside of a frame, and
I can kind of begin to draw out and
componentize my UI,
which is again helpful if you're
the one maintaining this design.
Also helpful if you wanna use any
of those measurement tools and
you didn't have the right kind
hierarchy and structure, right?
Kinda like when HTML has no real divs or
anything and you can't move stuff around.
You can kind of bring order to some of
the chaos that in this case I made but
sometimes you've inherited,
you can kinda pull this in and
begin to bring some
structure to it as well.